---
layout: page
title:  "Book Recommendations"
excerpt: "Book Recs"
project: false
comments: false
---
<h2><center>Highlights</center></h2>
<center><i>Books I'm still thinking about</i></center>

<b><i>Piranesi</i> by Susanna Clark</b>  
A study in empathy and identity, masterfully crafted. Delicate, luminous, and strikingly unique.

<b><i>Dialogues in Paradise</i> by Can Xue</b>  
Glittering, evocative, and uncanny, these avant-guard short stories eschew traditional narrative constructs to strike a deep, emotional chord.

<b><i>Awaiting Trespass</i> by Linda Ty-Casper </b>  
A brutal and beautiful story about the complexities of morality, relationships, and responsibility.

<h2><center>Striking, slick, and subversive (novels) </center></h2>

<b><i>Paul Takes the Form of a Mortal Girl</i> by Andrea Lawlor</b>  
Sexy and surprisingly empathetic: an exploration of fuck-you queerness and gender as performance, through the lens of a complicated main character.  

<b><i>The First Bad Man</i> by Miranda July</b>  
July’s main character functions with an idiosyncratic system, making for a fascinating read about the nature of romantic and maternal love. Clear, distinct, and emotional without being sentimental.  

<b><i>Tender is the Flesh</i> by Agustina Bazterrica </b>  
A stark, evocative examination of how evil becomes legitimatized by societal structures and personal convenience.

<h2><center>Sickness and society (novels)</center></h2>

<b><i>Steppenwolf</i> by Hermann Hesse</b>  
While indeed about a “sickness of the soul,” Steppenwolf is also about healing that sickness. It examines a fragmented self, which slowly and earnestly becomes closer to whole. Combined with glamorous settings, psychologically-stepped symbolism, and gender-bending, <i>Steppenwolf</i> makes for a compelling read. 

<b><i>No Longer Human</i> by Osamu Dazai</b>  
Dazai crafts a disconcerting character study of a man who feels as if he has been disqualified from being human. Dealing with apathy, self-destruction, and perceived monstrosity, this novel strikingly examines the nature of society and an individual’s role in it.

<b><i>Prize Stock (novella)</i> by Kenzaburō Ōe</b>  
A Japanese village captures an African-American fighter pilot during WWII, and a young boy chronicles the pilot's relationship with the village. Ōe's imaginative imagery, interwoven with themes of race, sexuality, and violence, makes this novella tangibly disturbing. (You might have an easier time finding it as <i>Teach Us To Outgrow Our Madness: 4 Short Novels</i> 

<b><i>At Night All Blood is Black</i> by David Diop</b>  
In this slim and hard-hitting novel, a soldier striken by grief becomes a monstrous legend. The author's use of repetition and asynchronous storytelling creates a vibrant, compelling, and interwoven work.

<h2><center>Poignant, perhaps bittersweet (novels)</center></h2>

<b><i>Never Let Me Go</i> by Kazuo Ishiguro</b>  
Tender, emotional, and nostalgic, this science-fiction book is far more devastating than it initially may appear. Through thoughtful characterization, Ishiguro illustrates the importance of small and large moments alike.  

<b><i>The God of Small Things</i> by Arundhati Roy</b>  
Painstakingly crafted, this novel follows a pair of identical twins as they grow up in India in the 1970s. The imagery-heavy and rhythmic writing conveys life in all its richness; this novel is an emotional odyssey that will both ruin and re-create you.  

<b><i>Pedro Páramo</i> by Juan Rulfo</b>  
Through stunning, hypnotic descriptions, Juan Rulfo crafts a mind-bending story about humanity’s relationship with death. As the memories of those who died echo across life, their pasts become living, breathing experiences.  

<b><i>The Sense of an Ending</i> by Julian Barnes</b>  
Following a middle-aged man reflecting on his youth, this story is more than meets the eye. As the layered mystery unfolds, centering on the unreliability of memory and the question ‘What does it mean to live a fulfilling life?’, this novel is both an enjoyable and effective read.  

<h2><center>Brutal and empathetic (novels)</center></h2>

<b><i>Giovanni’s Room</i> by James Baldwin</b>  
The emotions in this novel are perfectly pitched, as the powerful language conveys vulnerability, love, and repulsion. The story follows an American in Paris who falls for an Italian bartender; the characters are intensely described and evoke a strong reader response. Read it for a poignant portrait of the LGBT scene in Paris in the 1950s, as well as a heart-wrenching commentary on the nature of love and tragedy. 

<b><i>Waiting for the Barbarians</i> by J.M. Coetzee</b>  
Told from the point of view of a magistrate in Africa, this novel dissects theme of colonialism and entitlement. Coetzee’s writing is powerful, disturbing, and deeply psychological; he uses his mastery of craft to realize unusual character dynamics and poignant cultural commentary.   

<b><i>Jazz</i> by Toni Morrison</b>  
Richly and empathetically written, this novel focuses on the murder of an 18-year-old girl by her spurred, middle-aged lover. It's also a story of Harlem in the 1920s, the soul of jazz music, the emotional intensity of romantic love, and an enigmatic narrator.    

<h2><center>SciFi, Horror, and Fantasy (novels) </center></h2>

<b><i>Slaughterhouse-five</i> by Kurt Vonnegut</b>  
Vonnegut’s unique brand of dark humor makes this work a compact and striking piece. The cutting satire of this book manages to be funny while revealing the absurdity of war.  

<b><i>Ender’s Game</i> by Orson Scott Card</b>  
This novel follows a child prodigy named Ender, who is chosen by a government organization to wage war against aliens. This novel’s young characters are treated with respect and nuance, making them fully realized. Perfectly blending genre and literary themes, this novel examines the nature of love, war, and empathy.  

<b><i>Tender Morsels</i> by Margo Lanagan</b>  
Lush, horrific, and incisive--this dark fairytail has a pensive magic centered on trauma and relationships.

<h2><center>Short Stories and Poetry</center></h2>

<b><i>The Book of Masks</i> by Hwang Sun-won</b>  
At times subtle, distilled, complex, poignant, and direct, this short story collection covers a range of styles, themes, and characters--but always with a sense of deep humanity, a face below the mask.  

<b><i>Invisible Cities</i> by Italo Calvino</b>  
In this novel, each chapter describes a different city, as Marco Polo recounts his travels to the emperor Kublai Khan. Each vignette has its own unique theme and aesthetic; all together, this novel is an atmospheric and wondrous collection, reflecting both on human nature and the world we live in.  

<b><i>What the Living Do</i> by Marie Howe</b>  
Gorgeous, resonant poems with an emphasis on life, love, and death. The imagery is so tangible you feel like you can hold it in your hands.

<h2><center>Thanks for reading!</center></h2>

I’m always looking for new recommendations, so if there’s a book you think I might like, feel free to [contact me.](https://ddykiel.github.io/reach-out/)  

If you think we have similar tastes, you can also find me on [The Storygraph](https://app.thestorygraph.com/profile/fracturescope)

Last updated 07/09/2022
